Tell me about yourself

I was graduated from Illinois Institute of Technology with a master degree in Computer Engineering.

In my graduate study, I have taken courses like Object-Oriented Programming, Software System Architecture and Operating System Design and implementation.

I am currently working in Bank of China New York Branch as a software Engineer.

My job includes developing a couple of financial reports by using core Java and Sql Server, Create SSIS packages to perform ETL operations 

for data warehouse system and write Sql stored procedure to implement data migration task.

I am most familar with Java, Sql and intermediate skill in python









1 Name of company, position title and description, dates of employment

My current employer is Bank of China New York Branch. The position title is software engineer. The date is from Dec 2011 to now.

For this job I enrolled in several projects which are Financial report development for Tax-Free Savings Account and Loan Loss Reserve 

accounting, creation of Sql Server Integration Services for data warehouse and assisted developing functionalities for Internet Banking System.


The previous job for that is also a software engineer for a company called Doublebridge Technologies where I led development for test cases to 

perform unit test on the source code by using JUnit framework. Also I was in charge of setting up the version contral system using TortoiseSVN.


I also had internship in Flextronics where I worked as a test engineer when I was studying for my master

degree in Chicago. My daily work is to design and perform test cases for the new developed smartphone and report the detail in HP quality 

center.









2 what education do you have?

I had a master degree majored in computer engineering in 2011. Before that, I had a bachelor degree for Telecommunications Engineer in 2009.









3 what do you do to keep up-to-date? How do you improve your self professionally?

In my spare time, I regularly check out some of the biggest software related websites like topcoder, github, stack overflow for information 

about the new technology and problems we have right now. Also I would watch some open courses on Youtube to further improve myself.










4 What led you choose your field of major study?

I've always wanted to be a software developer since I saw my friend's self developed strategy game programmed in BASIC when I was 15 years old.
Being a developer you can create fantastic things on your own hands. You will be taking part in every steps of the building process like

design, implementation, test. It has so much fun to see you bring your idea into something real and you'll feel great pleasure for what you

have made.











5 What did you like or dislike about your previous job?

I enjoyed the people I worked with. It was a friendly and fun atmosphere and I actually enjoyed going into work each morning.

One of the reasons I am leaving is that I felt I was not challenged enough at the job. After being there for so many years, I felt I was not

able to reach my full potential because of the lack of challenge and there was no room for advancement in the company. While I did enjoy

working there and appreciate the skills I developed while with the company, I feel my skill set can be better utilized elsewhere, where my

capabilities are more recognized and there is the opportunity for growth.










6 what problems have you encountered at work? and how did you deal with them?

Once a time I found that one of my colleagues was saying things that weren't true behind my back, I went to him and talked it through.

It turned out that he had misunderstood what I had said, and I was able to set the record straight with him. From this I learn that the

best way to deal with any challenges is to meet them head on.









7 Have you ever had difficulty working with a manager?

Almost not. My manager is a flexible guy and he gave me the freedom to do my work in the way I like. We get on pretty well.










8 Why did you resign from your job?

Because I am more interested in a new challenge and an opportunity to use my skills and experience in a different capacity than

I have in the past.









9 Tell me more about yourself










10 What is your greatest strenght?

I pride myself on my java and SQL skills and my ability to resolve what could be difficult situations.






11 What is your Greatest weakness?

I like to make sure that my work is perfect, so I tend to perhaps spend a little too much time checking it which sometimes lead me

to work overtime to finish it. However, I've com to a good balance by setting up a system to ensure everything is done correctly

the first time.




12 How would you describe your work style?

I keep a steady pace, and check my work as I go along, to prevent mistakes from snowballing.





13 How do you handle stress and pressure?

Actually stress can be a good thing. It can motivate you to stay stronger and you have to struggle yourself to get over it. Through the

process you'll get great improvement. So stress does not sound too bad for me.





14 Describe your work ethic?

work is worship for me and my company is my temple. I do my work for the benefits to the organization. I belive in hard working with

excellent use of my talent, skills and experience. My dedication and commitment is towards my company.




15 what is your ideal job?

A job that allows me to grow in the organization. Meanwhile I can make a positive contribution to the growth of the firm. It can also

motivate myself to continue educating myself to be the best that I can be in the field.





16 what do you look for in a job?

I look for a job that can help me grow with knowledge and challenge me to do my best. You cannot grow without challenge. Also I look for

a job that has ability for me to grow with the company and have potential room for advancement.







17 what are your salary expectations?

It is open based upon the position and the overall compensation package. Actually I'd like to know more about the responsibilities

and the challenges of the job prior to discussing salary.





18 why should you be hired?

because I have the skills outlined in the job description and I bring 3+ years of expertise to the position so I think I am a good fit

for this job.




19 Do you prefer to work indipendently or on a team?

I am equally comfortable working as a member of a team and independently. In researching the job description, I can see similarities to

my previous position where there were some assignments that required a great deal of independent work and research and others where the

team effor was most effective.





20 What type of work environment do you prefer?

I can be flexible when it comes to my work environment. What is the environment in the Engineering department here at XXX ?






21 Why do you think you will be successful at this job? (same as 18)

As my resume reflects, I have been successful at each of my previous places of employment. My research of your company, the job description

outlined, and the information we've exchanged today, lead me to believe I have the skills and experience for which you are looking; and I

am eager to be a contributing employee.





22 why do you want to work here?

As an industry leader in XXX, XXX is always my dream company to work for. It has the best xxx and great culture. One of my friend who works

there tell me ... Also by reading the job description I found the work for this role is exactly what I like to do and What I do best. Based 

on that I think this is the company I've been looking for, a place where my background, experience and skills can be put to use and make 

things happen.





23 What can you do for this company? (same as 18, 21)






24 Why should we hire you? (same as 18 but should also give concrete example)






25 What do you know about this company?

do research





26 Why do you want to work here? (same as 16, 22)





27 What challenges are you looking for in a position?






28 What can you contribute to this company?






29 are you willing to travel?

How much travel is involved? I prefer to be home five nights a week






30 How long do you expect to remain employed with the company?

I believe that this company has the capacity to offer me a rich and satifying career, and I would like to remain employed

here for as long as I am having a positive impact.





31 is there anything I haven't told you about the job or company that you would like to know?

Is this a new position? if not, what did the previous employee go on to do?

For you sir what do you like about working there and what dont't you like about working there?

What are the prospects for growth and advancement?

What are biggest challenges that I might face in my first few months?

What has been the short and long-term career path for others that have been in this or similar positions within your company?

What would it take for someone to be successful in this job?

Is there anything about my background that would make you think I am not qualified for this position?

let them know you are excited about the job. try to get a business card so you can send email/thank you note.








32 What are your goals for the next five years/ten years?

My long-term goals involve growing with a company where I can continue to learn and take on additional responsibilities,

contribute as much of value as I can.






33 How do you plan to achieve those goals?

I noticed that xxx company provides in house training for employees and I would certainly be interested in taking classes that would be

relevant. Also personally I will continue my professional developmnt by attending seminars or regularly check out the websites for

software engineer like Github, topcoder to keep myself updated with the lastest technology






34 What will you do if you don't get this position?

I will continue my 		However, I do feel that my experience and skills make me the best candidate for this team.













Software Engineer:

1 How do you keep yourself updated with technology? (same as 3)



2 Can you tell us about your experience in developing or maintaining an internet site?

prepare for your project



3 Tell us about a difficult or complex programming assignment you've had. What steps did you take and how successful were you?





4 Can you tell me about your experience with XXX?




5 Have you had an experience when you, as a technical person, have had to work with nontechnical types to complete a project? Did you

find the situation frustrating? if so, in what way? How did you finally work together?




6 What are some of the hot topics that technology professionals are talking about?





7 How do you rate your XXX skills?





8 Do you use any type of web analytics? 





9 what is PageRank? NoFollow attribute? Why is a sitemap important and how would you make search engine find it quickly? How do you track

website's outlinks?







1 Please give me examples of how you handled an adverse situation (tough client) or a stressful deadline?





2 What attributes or skills separates you from other professionals in your field?




3 List 3 of your biggest accomplishments and 1-2 weaknesses(or areas requiring improvement).




4 Why are you looking to leave your current position and what are you looking for in your next role?





5 What do you know bout our company and why are you interested in this position?






6 What have you liked and disliked about your current & previous positions? (same as 4, be positive)






7 what are your short-term and long-term career goals?






8 Tell me the biggest challenge in your career to date.





9 Is there a particular industry or company size preference you have?

I prefer large company. Complete policy. most of them have training course. good for people just start their career.




10 Please explain your job moves and if applicable.







11 How long have you been looking for a new job?

find job is a two-way selections. not easy to find a right job for you in a short time.






12 how best would your supervisor/manager and staff describe you as a professional?






13 what are you looking for in your base salary and/or total compensation? How did you arrive at these numbers?

My main focus is finding the right opportunity and a fair market offer. I'd also prefer to have you recruiter negotiate on my behalf

and leave you with the fact that I'm extremely interested & excited about this position and your company.


















1 What do you want to do ?

large company —  I’ve always been interested in Java(or whatever) programming and really enjoy it, so I’m hoping to join a large company and do Java development(or whatever)

small company — I want to do xxx programming so I can show my work to my friends. I’m hoping to do this at a start-up where I can contribute my xxx experience and watch the company grow.

I’m hoping to do development that’s exciting and provides a lot of opportunity to contribute and learn. For me the work is just one part of the package; other important parts are the team and company.

mention you want to work with a great team. Being a member of a great team always comes across as one of my priorities.

if not sure, always describe the company you’re applying to as the ideal company for you.


2 what is your favorite programming language ? (favorite kind of computer? favorite operating system?)
my favorite programming language is Java. 
because first it has great popularity. You can discuss it with anyone because almost every developer knows how to write Java code and there are lots of support forum for Java. 

Secondly, Java runs on multiple platforms so it is really easy to deploy. 

Third it has a long history for over 20 years. Now it has become a robust(Java compiler can 
detect many problems that would first show up during execution time in other language), stable language and support a large amount of libraries and packages.

Other: Java is simple to code and maintain. Java is object-oriented. Java has rich documentation. Built-in support for multithreading.

remember to mention there are some tasks that Java would be a poor choice. I am familiar with a range of languages and I believe no one language is a universal solution. It’s important to pick the best tool for the job.


3 what is your work style ?

My work style is like a typical programmer style. I am not that kind of guy who go to work at 9 and get off at 5. Whenever there is some work to be done I am gonna be ready for it. It is very flexible. Sometimes I work at midnight sometimes I go to company on weekends it all depends on the job.




4 tell me about your experience

I was graduated from Illinois Institute of Techonology with a master degree in Computer Engineering and since then I have been in this area for 5 years. 
I’ve gained extensive experience in many aspects of software engineering, including application programming, QA testing and system architecture. 
My current job is a software developer in Bank of China. What I’ve been doing there is to develop annually report for Tax Free Saving Accounts by using Java and SQL server. Use python to develop batch scripts to automate common tasks. (Additionally, implement ETL operations for data warehouse system.)
Additionally, I’ve also had some personal projects through different areas such as JSP/servlets and ruby on rails.
I’m skilled in Java, python, SQL and I have passionate enthusiasm in technology
I’m looking for an opportunity to work for a great company where I can contribute my hands-on experience and grow my career with the company and I think yours is the type of companies I really want to work with.


5 What are you career goals ?

I’m hoping to work in development for a while and work on some great projects. Then I’m looking to go into project management. Beyond that, it’s hard to say.


6 why are you looking to change jobs ?

I am interested in development but my current company has outsourced most projects so I don't find it is interested to work there anymore.


7 how much money do you want to make ?

put this question off as long as possible.

at early stage, try to give a range of salaries with the amount that you want at the low end.
80,000 - 90,000


8 What is your salary history ?

I expect compensation appropriate for the new job and responsibilities. The compensation that I received for a different set of tasks isn’t relevant.



9 why should we hire you ?

xxx is a great company for its innovative xxx and it is always my dream company so I’ll have great motivation to finish the job at my best part. Also I have carefully read the job description for xxx position. It tells you what you need is someone that has strong experience in xxx and great passion in techonology. Based on my experience, I believe I am the right person that can contribute these required skills for the company and meanwhile grow my career with this great company.

10 Do you have any questions for me ?

ask you interviewer what he or she does. ask more details for anything mentioned during the interview.
make a joke of it. Gee, I know that I’m supposed to ask a question, but the person I interviewed with this morning answered all my questions. I guess you’re off the hook.


11 what are your biggest strengths ? biggest weakness ?
knowledge, experience, skills.


12 Have you ever had a conflict with a teammate ?


13 do you have problem in your work? how you solve it ?














